# langchain_core.outputs.chat_result — 🦜🔗 LangChain  documentation

**URL:** https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/_modules/langchain_core/outputs/chat_result.html
**Word Count:** 136
**Links Count:** 13
**Scraped:** 2025-07-21 08:57:11
**Status:** completed

---

# Source code for langchain\_core.outputs.chat\_result               """Chat result schema."""          from typing import Optional          from pydantic import BaseModel          from langchain_core.outputs.chat_generation import ChatGeneration                              [[docs]](https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/core/outputs/langchain_core.outputs.chat_result.ChatResult.html#langchain_core.outputs.chat_result.ChatResult)     class ChatResult(BaseModel):         """Use to represent the result of a chat model call with a single prompt.              This container is used internally by some implementations of chat model,         it will eventually be mapped to a more general `LLMResult` object, and         then projected into an `AIMessage` object.              LangChain users working with chat models will usually access information via         `AIMessage` (returned from runnable interfaces) or `LLMResult` (available         via callbacks). Please refer the `AIMessage` and `LLMResult` schema documentation         for more information.         """              generations: list[ChatGeneration]         """List of the chat generations.              Generations is a list to allow for multiple candidate generations for a single         input prompt.         """         llm_output: Optional[dict] = None         """For arbitrary LLM provider specific output.              This dictionary is a free-form dictionary that can contain any information that the         provider wants to return. It is not standardized and is provider-specific.              Users should generally avoid relying on this field and instead rely on         accessing relevant information from standardized fields present in         AIMessage.         """