# langchain_core.messages.human — 🦜🔗 LangChain  documentation

**URL:** https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/_modules/langchain_core/messages/human.html
**Word Count:** 140
**Links Count:** 14
**Scraped:** 2025-07-21 08:57:11
**Status:** completed

---

# Source code for langchain\_core.messages.human               """Human message."""          from typing import Any, Literal, Union          from langchain_core.messages.base import BaseMessage, BaseMessageChunk                              [[docs]](https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/core/messages/langchain_core.messages.human.HumanMessage.html#langchain_core.messages.human.HumanMessage)     class HumanMessage(BaseMessage):         """Message from a human.              HumanMessages are messages that are passed in from a human to the model.              Example:                  .. code-block:: python                      from langchain_core.messages import HumanMessage, SystemMessage                      messages = [                     SystemMessage(                         content="You are a helpful assistant! Your name is Bob."                     ),                     HumanMessage(                         content="What is your name?"                     )                 ]                      # Instantiate a chat model and invoke it with the messages                 model = ...                 print(model.invoke(messages))         """              example: bool = False         """Use to denote that a message is part of an example conversation.              At the moment, this is ignored by most models. Usage is discouraged.         Defaults to False.         """              type: Literal["human"] = "human"         """The type of the message (used for serialization). Defaults to "human"."""              def __init__(             self, content: Union[str, list[Union[str, dict]]], **kwargs: Any         ) -> None:             """Pass in content as positional arg.                  Args:                 content: The string contents of the message.                 kwargs: Additional fields to pass to the message.             """             super().__init__(content=content, **kwargs)                                             [[docs]](https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/core/messages/langchain_core.messages.human.HumanMessageChunk.html#langchain_core.messages.human.HumanMessageChunk)     class HumanMessageChunk(HumanMessage, BaseMessageChunk):         """Human Message chunk."""              # Ignoring mypy re-assignment here since we're overriding the value         # to make sure that the chunk variant can be discriminated from the         # non-chunk variant.         type: Literal["HumanMessageChunk"] = "HumanMessageChunk"  # type: ignore[assignment]         """The type of the message (used for serialization).         Defaults to "HumanMessageChunk"."""