# langchain_core.messages.system — 🦜🔗 LangChain  documentation

**URL:** https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/_modules/langchain_core/messages/system.html
**Word Count:** 117
**Links Count:** 14
**Scraped:** 2025-07-21 08:57:35
**Status:** completed

---

# Source code for langchain\_core.messages.system               """System message."""          from typing import Any, Literal, Union          from langchain_core.messages.base import BaseMessage, BaseMessageChunk                              [[docs]](https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/core/messages/langchain_core.messages.system.SystemMessage.html#langchain_core.messages.system.SystemMessage)     class SystemMessage(BaseMessage):         """Message for priming AI behavior.              The system message is usually passed in as the first of a sequence         of input messages.              Example:                  .. code-block:: python                      from langchain_core.messages import HumanMessage, SystemMessage                      messages = [                     SystemMessage(                         content="You are a helpful assistant! Your name is Bob."                     ),                     HumanMessage(                         content="What is your name?"                     )                 ]                      # Define a chat model and invoke it with the messages                 print(model.invoke(messages))              """              type: Literal["system"] = "system"         """The type of the message (used for serialization). Defaults to "system"."""              def __init__(             self, content: Union[str, list[Union[str, dict]]], **kwargs: Any         ) -> None:             """Pass in content as positional arg.                  Args:                    content: The string contents of the message.                    kwargs: Additional fields to pass to the message.             """             super().__init__(content=content, **kwargs)                                             [[docs]](https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/core/messages/langchain_core.messages.system.SystemMessageChunk.html#langchain_core.messages.system.SystemMessageChunk)     class SystemMessageChunk(SystemMessage, BaseMessageChunk):         """System Message chunk."""              # Ignoring mypy re-assignment here since we're overriding the value         # to make sure that the chunk variant can be discriminated from the         # non-chunk variant.         type: Literal["SystemMessageChunk"] = "SystemMessageChunk"  # type: ignore[assignment]         """The type of the message (used for serialization).         Defaults to "SystemMessageChunk"."""